---
MXE: The Wonder Drug
---
<article class="post-listing post-10958 post type-post status-publish format-standard has-post-thumbnail hentry category-deepdot-news tag-drug tag-mxe">
    <div class="post-inner">
        <span>Posted by: <a href="https://www.deepdotweb.com/author/lines_of_thought/" title="">Lines_of_Thought </a></span>
    <span>July 6, 2015</span>
    
    <span><a href="https://www.deepdotweb.com/2015/07/06/mxe-the-wonder-drug/#comments">16 Comments</a></span>
    </p>
    <div class="clear"></div>
    <div class="entry">
    <p>The term &#8220;wonder drug&#8221;&#8216;s definition is; &#8220;a drug, usually recently discovered or developed, noted for its startling curative effect, as an antibiotic or sulfa drug&#8221;. This definition usually would lead one to think that the World Health Organisation&#8217;s Essential Drug List would be made up solely of wonder drugs. This is, however, invariably wrong. Some of them may be classified as wonder drugs, of course. The problem is though, there are a lot of drugs in there that have been surpassed in recent years by a large divide. The other problem is that until a complete testing procedure has been passed, for the drug&#8217;s efficacy and safety profile, it cannot be entered into the list due to FDA approval. This process usually takes from five to ten years. The fact that our knowledge of pharmacology is increasing at an exponential rate, means that by the time the FDA has approved a certain compound it will already have been rendered obsolete.</p>
    <p>This is almost paradoxical. We are increasing our knowledge incredibly quickly yet bureaucracy and medical authorities are far too slow to allow these novel compounds to exist in a legal setting. Therefore novel wonder drugs are sat in the grey zone. This means that they are available but only for research settings, and without the FDA&#8217;s approval they cannot be sold by pharmaceutical companies, making them cheap and easily available for those who know pharmacology and the research conducted in the process for FDA approval.</p>
    <p>MXE, sadly, has been banned and as such it will not be going through this process. Ketamine, a close relative, <em>is</em> on the WHO essential drug list. However not for the purpose it should be intended for. The arylcyclohexylamine group is comprised of NMDA antagonists and opioids, and that perfect mixture of analgesia and serotonergic and dopaminergic activity makes them prime candidates for antidepressants without the heavy addiction that usually follows opioids, unless the compound in question has selective opioid activity such as Bromadol or 3-HO-PCP.</p>
    <p>Other illegal compounds that could be classed as wonder drugs are psychedelics and empathogens such as Psilocin and MDMA. The fact that they are illegal does not prohibit them from having the potential to be a wonder drugs, it only prohibits the use of them. This is a major boon to psychotherapists and the health industry in general. The fact that these compounds can be abused is the reason to completely outlaw them, yet other much more destructive drugs that offer little insight in a psychotherapeutic setting such as opioids or stimulants are available through prescription, and essentially legal from a wider viewpoint.</p>
    <p>The irony is almost too much to be taken seriously. As such it makes both the FDA and pharmaceutical companies look like &#8220;legal&#8221; heroin dealers, especially in countries where heroin (or Diamorphine) is available by prescription. The same goes for Cocaine, Amphetamines and Benzodiazepines, all very addictive and fairly ineffective compared to recent wonder drugs. For instance, in place of Cocaine, one could use similar, non-addictive local anaesthetics with no abuse potential, Amphetamines could be replaced by Orexin agonists, or wakefulness enhancers such as Modafinil (dopamine reuptake inhibitors with little abuse potential) and benzodiazepines with non-addictive anxiolytics (of which there are far too many to count). In the case of opioids, there are certain compounds which remove the addictive aspects of opioids, such as Enkephalinase Inhibitors, however these are still not acknowledged by the pharmaceutical society and why would they be? If you introduce a compound to make opioids safe, then sales would plummet. The same goes for cures for cancer and other life threatening diseases, of which there are many efficient compounds to plug the hole but are still not approved.</p>
    <p>Back to MXE though, it <em>is</em> a wonder drug. It&#8217;s an almost perfect antidepressant, anxiolytic, neurogenerative compound with very few side effects and almost everyone that have used MXE for therapeutic purposes would explain how it is by far the most effective compound for a variety of mental disorders. It was discovered fairly recently and it entered the RC (research chemical) scene, where it proved to be incredibly popular and those with knowledge of it&#8217;s prowess, have benefited greatly from it, including myself.</p>
    <p>The RC scene is on the cusp of recreational drug research and until recently, it was allowed to be conducted without harassment by laws and their enforcement. If such a compound was discovered through the first wave of recreational drug evolution, who knows what else could be out there with great health benefits, but under the blanket ban enforced by the UK (and soon the EU), the RC scene has gone quiet. It will be difficult to recover from such a state and as such our pharmacological knowledge has been stunted. Another factor prohibiting the expansion of psycho-pharmacology is the DNM (Dark Net Market) scene, where illegal compounds are sold widely. Before such places existed, the RC scene thrived and was the primary area of sale of drugs on the internet. They were all grey so sites could exist where they could be sold under the guise of the &#8220;not for human consumption&#8221; banner.</p>
    <p>Since the revolutionary birth of DNMs however the RC scene has dwindled, the research began to focus on potent stimulants and cannabinoids and the growth of psychotherapeutic drugs such as psychedelic and dissociative drugs regressed into the state where only a few select (and old) compounds could be acquired. The research stood still. Nothing new was unveiled except for perhaps Diphenidine and other such compounds which are far too unpredictable to be used in a therapeutic setting. The recent blanket ban, however will destroy even these compounds though and we are soon to enter the dark ages for psychoactive research chemicals, while illegal drugs will continue to prosper on DNMs.</p>
    <p>Creativity and novelty will slowly die and thus the evolution of pharmacology will die with it. Of course Big Pharma will continue to produce novel compounds but they would be subject to FDA approval and the process will be very slow in relation to the growth we&#8217;ve seen in the past few years.</p>
    <p>&#8216;How does one fix this?&#8217;, you may ask. The answer is simple. Open your mind, do not be afraid of novelty, become enthused with the fact that compounds that surpass every drug known today are out there, yet undiscovered and put faith in those who are trying to bring back the golden age of RCs. Instead of Heroin, buy Furanyl-Fentanyl, instead of LSD, get some ETH-LAD, instead of mushrooms, 4-HO-MiPT, instead of Xanax, get Clonazolam, instead of Cannabis, try out a cannabinoid reuptake inhibitor such as URB-597 or a non-selective cannabinoid such as JWH-073 and instead of Ketamine, get MXE.</p>
    <p>A more optimal solution still, would be to enquire about novel compounds in these areas such as 5-TOET or 3a-Methyl-MDA (both a psychedelic <em>and</em> empathogen) as a psychedelic, bk-aMT as an empathogen, RB-101 and it&#8217;s relatives for removal of addiction to opioids, Levorphacetyl for the opioid to join it, Nitetrazepam as a benzo, <em>cis</em>-N-HO-4-MAR as a stimulant and MXPy (Methoxrolidine) instead of MXE. Together, as a social movement we could continue the introduction of novel compounds to the world and in time we will almost certainly find other wonder drugs and evolve psycho-pharmacology with the emphasis placed squarely upon what we do not know instead of what we do know.</p>
    <p>LoT</p>
    </div>
    <span style="display:none"><a href="https://www.deepdotweb.com/tag/drug/" rel="tag">drug</a> <a href="https://www.deepdotweb.com/tag/mxe/" rel="tag">mxe</a></span> <span style="display:none" class="updated">2015-07-06</span>
    <div style="display:none" class="vcard author" itemprop="author" itemscope itemtype="http://schema.org/Person"><strong class="fn" itemprop="name"><a href="https://www.deepdotweb.com/author/lines_of_thought/" title="Posts by Lines_of_Thought" rel="author">Lines_of_Thought</a></strong></div>
    </div>
</article>

