---
Today&#8217;s Opioid Culture
---
<article class="post-listing post-10975 post type-post status-publish format-standard has-post-thumbnail hentry category-articles category-deepdot-news tag-culture tag-opioid tag-todays">
    <div class="post-inner">
    <p class="post-meta">
    <span>Posted by: <a href="https://www.deepdotweb.com/author/lines_of_thought/" title="">Lines_of_Thought </a></span>
    <span>July 30, 2015</span>
    <span>in <a href="https://www.deepdotweb.com/category/articles/" rel="category tag">Articles</a>, <a href="https://www.deepdotweb.com/category/deepdot-news/" rel="category tag">Featured</a></span>
    <span><a href="https://www.deepdotweb.com/2015/07/30/todays-opioid-culture/#comments">13 Comments</a></span>
    </p>
    <div class="clear"></div>
    <div class="entry">
    <p>For thousands of years opiates have been used in many different contexts. Going back to the pre-biblical times, Opium was used as a healing remedy, an anesthetic, ritual purposes and just to get high. During the 15<sup>th</sup> century opium use was widespread in China and then in the 18<sup>th</sup> century the British came in and used their opium habits to balance the economy as China was doing very well in that time period, which the British, obviously, did not want. Then towards the start of the 20<sup>th</sup> century opium and all opiate products were banned as their use had a high impact on the working class, which meant that less work was being done.</p>
    <p>In recent times opiates have been demonized for their ability to make users dependent on the substances and more often than not, turn to crime to get their next fix. However today, opiate use has become more popular due to the influx of pharmaceutical opioids and military occupation of poppy fields in Afghanistan, which in turn gets sent back to the western countries and as a result a large amount of Heroin is flooding the streets, turning more and more into opiate users.</p>
    <p>After looking through some statistics I came across some astounding facts. Over the past 40 years drug overdose (mainly opiates) have increased some 10 times the amount at the beginning of the 70&#8217;s with an exponential curve showing that fact. In just ten years (between 1998 and 2008) opioid overdoses increased 3 times as much and it&#8217;s mostly in western countries.</p>
    <p>The United States, Canada, Australia and Europe have the highest rates of opioid users, with over 10,000 active users (this number is probably a <em>lot</em> higher) constituting that scale. Use in places such as Russia, South America, East Asia and Africa are a hell of a sight lower, this indicates that opioid use is most prominent in the western countries. Either that or the other countries simply don&#8217;t have access to these kinds of drugs, mainly because the wealthier countries are catered to by the drug smugglers who see a much higher opportunity for profit from these countries.</p>
    <p>The age of users however is mostly between the ages of 17 and 35, so still it is a recreational drug for those that are in the hedonistic stage of life. There are a fair amount of users over the age of 35 though, these would be the kind of people that can hold down jobs, appropriate use for chronic pain and those that haven&#8217;t been able to quit while they were younger and exacerbating their use as time passes on.</p>
    <p>This tells us that the demographic of opiate users is not just for the working class anymore. More and more middle and upper class people have taken to these compounds and tend to live fairly normal lives without their use getting in the way of the personal lives. I have been talking to many different people from all walks of life about opioid use and it&#8217;s role in today&#8217;s society and found some interesting things about how opioids are used in society.</p>
    <p>I went to &#8216;Reddit&#8217; to ask some of the users some questions about how they feel about opiate usage and here are the responses I got. I have condensed them into a more readable form as most of the answers were quite long.</p>
    <p><strong>From the non-opiate users viewpoint here are their answers:</strong></p>
    <p><strong>#1. <em>How do you perceive opiate culture today and what do you think of opiate users (both addicts and casual users)</em></strong></p>
    <p>Opiate culture today has grown a lot due to massive recessions in place. These in turn create depression and one of the outlets is to use opioids. Another factor in the rise of opioid users is the pill boom in the US. It&#8217;s no longer Heroin that&#8217;s being used, as many still are under the impression that it&#8217;s a man killer whereas in comparison Oxycodone and other pharmaceutical opioids don&#8217;t seem as threatening even though they are as addictive as Heroin. There seems to be an impression to non-opiate users that they are degenerate criminals, while this is true in some cases, the vast majority seem to be able to live normal lives. However the vast majority of users are just casual users not full-blown addicts as seen in films such as &#8216;Trainspotting&#8217; which glorifies the addict culture.</p>
    <p><strong>#2. <em>What is the opiate culture like in your country/area? I.e. is it a large problem? What are the drugs of choice to users? Where do the opiates come from (for instance; pharmaceutical companies or clandestine manufacturers (like Afghan H, or BTH))</em></strong></p>
    <p>In Europe it seems that the majority of opiate users use Heroin or Morphine. The Heroin usually comes either by transit through the middle east and the Balkans but in the UK it seems to come straight from the poppy fields in Afghanistan and is brought back by plane through soldiers or military officials. However in the US it&#8217;s a different story. The majority of opiate users use pharmaceuticals or Black Tar Heroin (BTH) from Mexico. However it seems evident that the law is coming down on pharmacies and it&#8217;s now a lot more difficult to buy pain pills. In many places though the big problem is Meth and that has turned the once users of opiates into Meth users.</p>
    <p><strong>#3. <em>If you could use opiates and not get addicted at all, would you use them?</em></strong></p>
    <p>It seems that most people would use opiates in a heartbeat if not for addiction but others state that opioids are way too expensive to be able to maintain a habit but I think this notion would be lost if there wasn&#8217;t the issue of tolerance. Tolerance is what makes these drugs so expensive.</p>
    <p>However some users are able to maintain a habit without getting fully addicted and this is more an aspect of willpower which others succumb to whether it&#8217;s due to depression or other factors causing the need to escape reality for a little while, this could be loss of one&#8217;s job or their family. It seems societal pressures are the main cause of &#8220;going off the deep end&#8221; and this is true in many cases of addiction, not just in opiates but in amphetamines, benzodiazepines and most of all; alcohol. Which seems to be the main drug of abuse in cases of mental instability and the main &#8216;gateway drug&#8217; to many.</p>
    <p><strong>#4. <em>What are the opiate users you know, like? What is their job (if they have one)? Do they manage to keep it under control? Do they act differently while under the influence or have they changed since they started using?</em></strong></p>
    <p>There seems to be a divided notion of users&#8217; lifestyles. Many are able to hold down and keep jobs while maintaining their opiate habit while others have fallen out of society and reside in criminal behaviour such as dealing opiates or getting opiates in any way they can even using their food-stamps to buy groceries for their dealer. Again a divide in attitudes of users, some are quite content while high and can be invariably kinder when on the drug but without them they are irritable and anxious. On the other hand some users are in fact more irritable when on opiates, to quote one person; after a long stint of using &#8221; he turned into a dick for a while&#8221; before eventually coming clean after his addiction spiraled out of control, and as a result he became &#8220;the loveable guy he used to know&#8221;.</p>
    <p><strong>Here are the answers from opioid users, with slightly different questions:</strong></p>
    <p><strong>#1. <em>What is the local opiate scene around you like and what do you think the opiate scene is like around the rest of the </em><em>Country/world? Is it casual users or addicts mostly?</em></strong></p>
    <p>From the answers I got to this question it seems like usage varies from place to place. For instance in middle-upper class areas, most are just casual users whereas in lower class areas, people are addicts mainly involved in criminal activities to get their fix.</p>
    <p>The higher class users are mostly casual but that eventually turns into addiction. One person mentioned that even though the users had high paying jobs such as lawyers or doctors started out using prescription opioids then turned to heroin. In fact the while most of the dealers are black, around three quarters of their clientèle are white.</p>
    <p>While on the other side there seems to be a high demographic of lower class users who are homeless and shoot up on the street. The downward spiral is what causes many of these problems. Users start on prescription pills and eventually turn to heroin as it&#8217;s cheaper, then it&#8217;s a lot cheaper to start IVing and eventually users become the typical junkie stereotype, involved in criminal activities to score and end up living on the streets. It&#8217;s a sad life for opiate users but with recent innovations in pharmacology this lifestyle could become a thing of the past.</p>
    <p><strong>#2. <em>How do you score? Do you use local dealers or online black marketplaces?</em></strong></p>
    <p>Most users seem to prefer local dealers rather than going through Darknet Markets, typically because it&#8217;s a lot less expensive but then again the quality can vary quite a bit. Darknet Markets usually provide the highest quality opiates but for a much higher price. However the main concern with local dealers is that they are quite sketchy, which is a major turn off for users as they like to be secure in the knowledge that they won&#8217;t be ripped off. However the risk in this is that the local dealers could be arrested and their source has been lost so the only way to score would be on online marketplaces.</p>
    <p>The main concern with Darknet Markets is authorities would specifically target hard drug users more than soft drug users which can cause anxiety in some users, who have a lot to lose from getting caught (i.e. their jobs or family, who usually don&#8217;t know about their opiate habits) causing them to score from the local dealers, who invariably are quite the unsavory characters.</p>
    <p>Some users however have a prescription for pain management pills, so that causes them to be able to afford their drug of choice and not have to deal with dealers or online marketplaces.</p>
    <p><strong>#3. <em>What is the opiate you use on a day to day basis?</em></strong></p>
    <p>From the answers I got from this question the habits of opioid users varies a lot. Perhaps 50% use heroin, mostly Black Tar Heroin from Mexico but many use lighter opioids and prescription pills. These can vary from Poppy-seed tea, Loperamide and Kratom to prescription opioids such as Oxycodone and Hydromorphone.</p>
    <p>Although some users who are trying to wean themselves off opiates use government sanctioned addiction suppressants such as Buprenorphin (Subutex) and Methadone. These drugs, especially Methadone, can be a lot more addictive than heroin itself and this is becoming a major problem for opiate users as it is much harder to get off methadone that it would be for heroin. I think this is mostly to do with the NMDA antagonist effects that methadone gives the user. This modulates synaptic</p>
    <p>plasticity causing a higher level of addiction in methadone users. Subutex however is generally used to stave off withdrawals and contains little recreational value but still users can get addicted to this as it is an opioid receptor agonist. However users of these government sanctioned compounds can become functional again, which is a great positive for these users so it&#8217;s difficult to know how much of a positive or negative these solutions are.</p>
    <p><strong>#4. <em>If you could stop using, without any withdrawal or hassle, would you?</em></strong></p>
    <p>Another mixed bag of answers. Many have set stopping dates and many have quit before but it&#8217;s more the psychological addiction that keeps people going back for more. Also it seems to be that withdrawals are not the worst part to casual users, it&#8217;s more the feelings of depression after using. Long term users however say that if there wasn&#8217;t the side effect of withdrawals they definitely wouldn&#8217;t use everyday. Also those with chronic pain issues wouldn&#8217;t stop using due to their ailments which is an honest answer to give. Many use opiates for this issue and they wouldn&#8217;t stop even if they could.</p>
    <p><strong>#5. <em>Do you manage to keep your habit under control?</em></strong></p>
    <p>The general consensus here is a resounding &#8220;Yes!&#8221;. Most users are casual users, there were a few answers that said that they are unable to keep their habit under control and that&#8217;s because their use has grown so much that it seems impossible to keep under control but from this survey it seems most don&#8217;t resort to criminal activities in order to get their drugs.</p>
    <p>It also seems that government sanctioned opiate control with drugs such as Suboxone or Methadone let the users live a normal life again so this kind of program seems to work but I think that if they were to try to quit these drugs it would be a much harder accomplishment than with using heroin. Also the use of lighter opiates such as codeine and kratom can be of great use when ending a binge.</p>
    <p><strong>#6. <em>Where do most of your opiates come from in your area, pharmaceutical companies or clandestine manufacturers?</em></strong></p>
    <p>In the US the majority of Heroin comes from Mexico in the form of Black Tar but every once in a while ECP (East Coast Powder) comes along which usually comes from Afghanistan (Brown #3 (freebase heroin, meant to be smoked or injected, by use of citric acid to make it suitable for IVing)) or South East Asia and Colombia (White #4 (Hydrochloride Heroin, meant to be insufflated (snorted) or injected without the use of acids to make it suitable for IVing)).</p>
    <p>Pain medications usually come from inside the countries and are distributed through either &#8216;Pill Mills&#8217; (like in Florida before it was cracked down upon. Now these pills mills have begun cropping up in other states such as Ohio or Michigan) or through elderly patients who have prescriptions for pain meds but don&#8217;t need them. However in Europe it is a lot harder to find prescription medications as the doctors are a lot less willing to prescribe heavy pain medications unless in serious circumstances, however Codeine is readily available from pharmacies.</p>
    <p>Another form of distribution is from chemists, sometimes local, sometimes from China where wholesalers produce large quantities of opioids (mostly rare or hard to find opioids and are sold as Research Chemicals. These include Dipipanone, RAM-378, W-15 &amp; 18, 6-MDDM, Metopon, AH-7921, MT-45, O-Desmethyltramadol (the active metabolite of Tramadol) and fentanyl analogues such as Acetyl, Butyr, 4-Fluoro-Butyr and Acryl-Fentanyl.</p>
    <p>One user expressed distress when despite all his pleas to a local chemist he still wouldn&#8217;t synthesize Dibenzolicmorphine!</p>
    <p><strong>#7. <em>What opioid or combination of drugs gave you the best rush/high? What was it like?</em></strong></p>
    <p>This was just a question to see what the best mixes people have tried are and mostly it seems that the best opioid is Oxymorphone. Some recall speed-balling (a mixture of Cocaine and Heroin, traditionally IVed) as the greatest rush, others a mixture of pharmaceutical opioids such as Oxymorphone, Oxycodone and Morphine. Using other downers such and benzodiazepines, alcohol and GHB are also quite big hits.</p>
    <p>The most extensive combination was the use of Heroin, Oxymorphone, Oxycodone, Etizolam (a novel benzodiazepine), Methylmethaqualone (an analogue of Methaqualone or &#8216;Qualuudes&#8217;), Promethazine (an antihistamine used to prevent nausea and itching caused by the opioids), 4-MeO-PCP (an NMDA antagonist similar to ketamine), Cocaine and a low dose of DMT (which causes 5-HT1a agonism resulting in a very high amount of euphoria). He also mentioned using DMT and Diconal (a formulation of Dipipanone, a methadone analogue, and Cyclizine, an antihistamine) and it was fairly high up in the euphoria department. Though he mentioned that if you are not completely competent with each and every one of these compounds then it is NOT to be tried.</p>
    <p>However one user described his best hit as being just MDMA, with opiates as a close second, so it would seem that the ultimate high is not so ultimate any more.</p>
    <p><strong>#8. <em>Have you tried stopping before? What were the withdrawals like? Why did you return to using?</em></strong></p>
    <p>Most casual users have no desire to stop using unless they are forced to to avoid addiction, which is main concern in causal users. However heavy users that have decided to quit are usually racked with withdrawal sickness and by all accounts it is a horrific process. One user said many people refer to it as having the flu x100 but he disagreed on this subject as the symptoms he went through are; constant restlessness, inability to sleep, an uncomfortable electric feeling running throughout your body and constant sweating, a runny nose, diarrhoea (due to the remittance of constipation which opioids cause), and muscle aches.</p>
    <p>However some users feel that the withdrawals are not so bad but this may be on account of them not being too far into addiction. Others still have been able to chip for years without ever having a withdrawal and this is down to good planning and being aware of the state you are in when on opioids and the boundaries that are set when on them.</p>
    <p>The main reason people return to opioids after quitting however is the psychological addiction, which stays with the user for years. There will always be that nagging feeling of how good the high was and no matter how hard you try to fix this, it will never leave.</p>
    <p>Another user went onto explain how the demonization of addicts is not really the addicts themselves but the drugs they use. There is a rapid cycle between high tolerance rates and eventually physical dependence. He mentioned that there are strict rules to follow to not get caught up in this cycle.</p>
    <p>These are:</p>
    <ul>
    <li>Not to use when in a negative state of mind, similar to psychedelic use, as this can quickly become a dependence as it&#8217;s easy to have a bad day and gain release from using opiates and this is by far the hardest rule to follow.</li>
    <li>Never to IV. Tolerance builds a lot more rapidly in this case and it is the easiest way to fall into a downward spiral of addiction.</li>
    <li>Don&#8217;t go to work high. It is very easy to get through a days work while on opiates but this quickly turns into a habit as the more your job puts pressure on you the more the desire is to use while at work.</li>
    <li>Finally don&#8217;t use enough to gain a physical tolerance. Stick to weekends or once or twice a month to keep from gaining a full-blown addiction. His rule was never to use more days in a week than you don&#8217;t, so 3 days out of every week is ok but more than this and it is easy to build up an addiction.</li>
    </ul>
    <p>I then asked some vendors and wholesalers some questions about their attitudes towards opiate use.</p>
    <p><strong>Questions to Vendors:</strong></p>
    <p><strong>#1.<em> What is the opiate culture around you like?</em></strong></p>
    <p>Opiate use in Holland isn&#8217;t that common, however the older generation are the ones that use heroin. The younger generation seem to stick to the party drugs, however once this phase ends inevitably there are two paths to choose. One goes down the road of becoming a productive member of society, the other stays with drugs and turn to heroin and other opioids. This can be seen across the world as people grow up. Some stay in the drug hole but don&#8217;t have the effort to keep on using party drugs and turn to calm, escapist drugs such as opioids, others quit altogether, maybe carry on smoking cannabis from time to time but concentrate on their work and their families.</p>
    <p><strong>#2.<em> What kind of clientèle do you get?</em></strong></p>
    <p>Usually only dealers themselves buy from black market opioid vendors because for the average user it&#8217;s too expensive at retail prices. Junkies prefer to cop from their own dealers locally and if they ever did get their hands on a computer they&#8217;d probably sell it! This shows that the online black market caters to the higher rungs of criminal organisations, not the average user. However as an average user myself I find prices to be high but my tolerance is very low so it equals out to be not that expensive. I wouldn&#8217;t score from the street as I take pride in the purity of the drugs I use. I only use the highest quality I can find on dark web markets and I use rarely so that tolerance or addiction don&#8217;t become an issue and I&#8217;m able to keep using high purity opioids at a relatively cheap price.</p>
    <p><strong>#3.<em> What is your moral attitude to selling opiates? Do you ever feel bad about feeding addictions and possibly causing overdoses by way of your vending?</em></strong></p>
    <p>“Drug (ab)use is your own responsibility.”</p>
    <p>I think this is a very clear message to users. Dealers are usually only interested in money and the end user is taking their own lives in their hands. Quality will always be high from these vendors but down the lines it could get complicated. If the end user doesn&#8217;t see these issues then it&#8217;s their fault. Moreover it&#8217;s the fault of society these days. If drugs are criminalised then there will always be more incentive to create money and possibly add harmful compounds into the end product. This is capitalism. This happens in the wider world more often than one would think. Coca Cola for instance puts numerous additives that are incredibly harmful to health such as synthetic sugars which can cause cancer rapidly. The same happens in the drug world, however there is at least an idea of how the compound in question could kill you with a little too much whereas in commerce it&#8217;s a downward spiral into health issues and addiction due to the <em>legal</em> compounds that are added to the end product.</p>
    <p><strong>#4.<em> If you could make as much money selling something else, less harmful, would you?</em></strong></p>
    <p>“Why not”</p>
    <p>I think this statement speaks volumes about the mindset of the vendor.</p>
    <p><em>“</em><em>Cash rules everything around me” &#8211; </em>Wu-Tang Clan</p>
    <p>The nature of society today is to gain money from any angle to produce the most money one man can. If a substance created more income than opioids they would sell it over opioids any day and that is just the nature of human greed. Greed (as Gordon Gecko famously said) is good. It makes the world turn. It creates economy in all walks of life, be it legal or illegal. However if drugs were legalized that capital would go into the pockets of the upper classes and the manufacturers. I sometimes wonder whether the current state of drug laws today is right. The money goes into the pockets of private entrepreneurs rather than the state. The state is but a force to control the populace and in more cases than not the agenda is to quell out-speaking groups. This limits freedom and if drugs were to be legalized the power would be put into the hands of the state. Sure crime would be reduced and the end user would find it a lot easier to control their habit, however the power that the state would have could cripple the common man. A <em>“Brave New World”</em> type scenario could occur. This utopic/dystopic world could lead into much more harmful problems than the ones we face today under the control of drugs. It&#8217;s a tricky decision to make. Decriminalization is the most apt option to find however once this sets in, it&#8217;s only a hop, skip and a jump to true legalization, which could be a real problem for the state of society and the world in general.</p>
    <p><strong>#5.<em> What are your opinions of Enkephalinase Inhibitors (basically drugs that reduce tolerance, eliminate withdrawals and overdoses, enhance opioids and cease addictions altogether)?</em></strong></p>
    <p>“Never heard of it..but I don&#8217;t think there&#8217;s ever gonna be a solution or a substitute for drugs, people are looking for that &#8216;rush&#8217; and nothing else gives it to them..”</p>
    <p><em>When followed up by explaining the compound in further detail:</em></p>
    <p>“What can I say, if you&#8217;re addicted you gotta do what helps curing it, I guess”</p>
    <p>Vendors seem oblivious to the novel compounds designed to reduce addiction potential however they are open to the idea of curing addictions. The issue here is that these compounds would firstly reduce the amount of opioids needed to give the user their hit, thus reducing the amount of product sold. However an influx of new users with the idea of addiction free opioids would cause the amount of product to rise. Only time will tell how it eventually works out, if opiates become a lot more popular or die out completely is the issue. Though there will always be a need for that perfect anti-depressant and reward giver, regardless of whether it causes addiction or not. My personal opinion is that these compounds will revolutionize the way drugs are used.</p>
    <p>Such Enkephalinase Inhibitors are:</p>
    <p><strong>RB-101</strong> and analogues that are more suitable to human use such as <strong>RB-120</strong>.</p>
    <p><strong>D, L-Phenylalanine </strong>and pure <strong>D-Phenylalanine</strong></p>
    <p><strong>ENKI-OX</strong></p>
    <p><strong>Questions to Wholesalers:</strong></p>
    <p><strong>#1.<em> What is your moral attitude to selling opioids, given that they cause addiction and in some case overdoses and death </em></strong></p>
    <p>Vendor #1: “My opinion for this is; we are selling chemicals and&#8230;our business is fully legal and we do this for eat food and survive.</p>
    <p>To avoid non responsibility we hope that our customers know what they are doing and if they need opioids in their life it is their choice. We can never control humans, our supply is only for Research purposes and not for low ages. If someone really needs this for pain sometimes it is good but not for drug abuse, we do not recommend this.</p>
    <p>To better control this we are stop selling (lower amounts) and (raising) the minimum quantity to avoid any kids buying this and dying.”</p>
    <p>Vendor #2: “Well, I do not sell any chemical for human consumption, I&#8217;m not responsible for the uses people can give.”</p>
    <p><strong>#2.<em> I mentioned the Enkephalinase Inhibitor RB-101 previously (a compound that reduces tolerance, eliminates withdrawals and overdose, enhances opioids and ceases addiction altogether). Would you issue some to all opioid purchases if it were given to you for free?</em></strong></p>
    <p>Vendor #1: “Probably yes, but LE (law enforcement) or DEA can take that in a wrong way, in some way they can interpret that as me admitting selling chemicals for HC (human consumption).”</p>
    <p><strong>#3.<em> What is China&#8217;s attitude on research chemicals? I understand that opioids are a no-no but with regard to the rest of </em></strong></p>
    <p><em>them how does the Chinese government view them?</em></p>
    <p>Vendor #1: “China&#8217;s government is hard and bans chemicals each year. (There is a) death sentence for illegal chemicals. It is strict! Both legal and illegal chemicals.”</p>
    <p>Vendor #2: “Some people of the government do not like it because (the) DEA is always annoying us, because of (the) DEA Methylone, MDPV and others are banned. Opioids are very sensitive, and also amphetamines.”</p>
    <p><strong>#4.<em> I understand that North Korea has a very heavy Methamphetamine problem. Also I know that most of it comes from China, would this be the Chinese government or clandestine producers?</em></strong></p>
    <p>Vendor #1: “We are (the) producers of Methampethamine and MDMA. This would <em>not</em> be the Government that is do this never. (However) chemists like us, yes, we produce this.”</p>
    <p>Vendor #2: “(There are) many clandestine Meth labs in China, Nanjing and Qingdao. Meth and MDMA are produced in large amounts.”</p>
    <p><strong>#5.<em> What is the opioid culture like in China and South-East Asia?</em></strong></p>
    <p>Vendor #1: “I&#8217;m not sure about how the drug culture in South East Asia. Chinese drug culture is broad and depends on the areas; Shangai and Qingdao have a big club scene. Meth (Yaba*), MDMA and similar are the most used drugs.”</p>
    <p>* Yaba is a pill containing a mixture of usually 5-10mg Methamphetamine and 100mg of Caffeine.</p>
    <p><strong>#6.<em> What kind of clientèle do you get?</em></strong></p>
    <p>Vendor #1: “I&#8217;m not sure, most of them are Americans. I do not talk about the usage my customers give to the chemicals.”</p>
    <p>From this you can see that the drug scene in China is most like other countries. China&#8217;s drug policy is very severe and clandestine labs are the main producers of such chemicals. With such a vast landscape and populace it is easy to set up a lab and employ local people. Also with the amount of legitimate labs created to cater for the world&#8217;s industrial needs, it can be easy to set up a lab and not arouse too much suspicion about what they make.</p>
    <p>What I also highlighted is North Korea&#8217;s methamphetamine problem which has been seen recently as an epidemic with almost half the entire population currently addicted to the substance. From this it can be seen that the majority of methamphetamine is produced locally in North Korea, however there are some clandestine labs in China that export the drug, further enhancing China&#8217;s own economy. North Korea&#8217;s use of methamphetamine is by far the highest in the world with almost every adult having used the substance at least once. It is seen as a cure all drug, for every illness it is prescribed and handed out in the hope that the cheaply made compound will help the country&#8217;s economy and GDP.</p>
    <p>With so many people using the drug the output of farms and labour camps is enhanced by a huge factor, however at the risk of the populace&#8217;s health. This is of little concern to the government though, with it&#8217;s harsh attitude towards <a href="http://www.washingtonpost.com/blogs/worldviews/wp/2013/08/21/how-north-korea-got-itself-hooked-on-meth/">human rights</a>.</p>
    <p><strong>Ibogaine Treatment and Recovery</strong></p>
    <p>The use of Ibogaine in recovery of opiate and other drug addicts has become a growing trend in the world today. The use of Ibogaine has been practiced for thousands of years by tribes in Africa. They would eat the bark of the Iboga tree (Tabernanthe Iboga) and enter a spiritual trance as a rite of passage. Now this practice has entered the Western world for both spiritual purposes and for those in need of recovery. In recent years analogues of Ibogaine have been produced in an attempt to create a less dangerous and less intense version of the drug, the main one being 18-Methoxycoronaridine.</p>
    <p>The actual experience is a long and daunting challenge to the user. Sometimes it can also be quite frightening and many people view it as a nightmare but a nightmare that can cure, nevertheless. The duration and effects are caused by not only Ibogaine itself but it&#8217;s metabolite Noribogaine (or if an alkaloid extract is used, other alkaloids such as Voacangine) which is quite active in a different was which gives way to several different stages in the time-line of the experience.</p>
    <p>The first stage, with Ibogaine is caused by 5-HT2a agonism (Psychedelic drugs also agonise this receptor to produce visual stimuli), κ (kappa) opioid agonism (the receptor that Salvia Divinorum agonises) and NMDA antagonism (which is what ketamine and other dissociative drugs act upon). The second stage, as the metabolite Noribogaine sets in, causes serotonin reuptake inhibition (like many antidepressants produce), κ opioid antagonism and weak μ (mu) opioid agonism (the main receptor for all opioids). These factors combined help in cessation of withdrawals and addiction itself.</p>
    <p>The common practice for addiction recovery patients is to take a &#8216;flood dose&#8217;. This means a very high dose (17-25mg/kg) of the drug is taken to remove all toxins and to try to permanently rid the mind of it&#8217;s addiction. Some even take repeat doses some months later to further solidify the detoxification process.</p>
    <p>Prior to the experience it is important to detoxify the body and enter a period of sobriety as some components of the compound can be quite dangerous when mixed with other drugs, this is what leads to deaths during Ibogaine therapy (0.2% rate). Many even go so far as to only eat healthy foods and drinks before the trip. It is also very important to have a sitter present during the experience as the mind is almost completely relieved from rational thought and logic during the trip.</p>
    <p>The experience itself starts with a euphoric high and pseudo-hallucinations (like one would find with mushrooms or LSD), then the body switches off, the user must lie down at this point otherwise one would fall due to the intensity of the trip. It manifests itself into an almost Ayahuasca kind of rush with users having out of body experiences, ego-death and dreamscapes, which contain visions relating to their lives and the process of rejuvenation. Many users report an entity of some kind (a friend, shaman or a spirit guide, that can be an animal or just an invisible entity) that would lead them through the experience. Also it should be noted that a high body-load is present throughout the experience. They then go on to report visions of the mind being cleared of addiction and during this process; the mind is practically reset to factory settings. The experience can last from around 12 hours to up to four or five days, with the user being totally unconscious for the majority of the trip. Though afterwards all neuroticism, addictions and mental disorders are renewed and a great sense of refreshment is felt after it is over, with an afterglow that can last for several weeks.</p>
    <p>Around 80% of people who take part in these ceremonies do not relapse and more and more people are becoming interested in this practice as the dawn of the internet spreads this information around the world. This method of releasing oneself from addiction has become incredibly popular in recent years, yet still the compound remains illegal in many countries, which causes these &#8216;pilgrims&#8217; to travel to the places where it is not illegal to perform this ritual much in the same way as Ayahuasca rituals are performed, which can also help to rid one of their addictions and psychological imbalances.</p>
    <p>This is one of the more heartless components of the war on drugs. It&#8217;s illegal to use narcotics but for those in dire need of release from their grip, it is also illegal, so the governments expect the addicts to die off slowly, instead of leading more productive lives.</p>
    <p><strong>Novel Addiction Cessation Methods</strong></p>
    <p>However another way of treatment has finally broken through. With the use of Enkephalinase Inhibitors such as the compounds; RB-101 and its successor, the orally bioavailable RB-120, there is a chance. These compounds (Enkephalinase Inhibitors), reduce tolerance, withdrawal symptoms and physical addiction while in use. Having had the pleasure of trying them, I should say that while in their early experimental stages they work wonderfully. I was able to reduce my own opiate addiction (coerced into use, to see if the compounds, which I had so much faith in, would work), to almost nil and afterward I simply used NMDA antagonists such as Ketamine and MXE, ADDX-OX and Nociceptinergic antagonist opioids (that do not express the addiction rate as other opioids do) such as Kratom and (the active alkaloid) Mitragynine to smooth the last bits out. It was the work of 4 compounds together that made this happen and without the others it would not have worked.</p>
    <p>The Enkephalinase Inhibitors and ADDX-OX brought the addiction down, the Kratom helped me ease out of opioids without the addiction and the NMDA antagonists, while also providing dissociation, gave length to the other compounds and exaggerated their times, so the RB-120 would work for up to two days instead of three hours, as with the Kratom. These brought me gently down into an opiate free life. Afterward I still felt a psychological need but the MXE helped and as an addition I used a long lasting Kappa opioid antagonist which gave rise to anti-depression and felt like I had that ‘hit’ while it was in fact working against the addiction system.</p>
    <p>This method would revolutionize addiction cessation as we know it and the people behind this revolution are those at teamTLR for providing me with the necessary aids to help me come back from my addiction into real life.</p>
    <p>There has been a lot of flak given to them recently as a rival nootropic company decided to test their compound and found a high majority of them to contain Taurine. However the results picked up differing amounts, showing some compounds with 96% Taurine, others with 94% Taurine, which was more than enough evidence to show that the remaining 4-6% were incredibly potent compounds sprayed onto a ‘blank’ material. The compounds I used helped me so much through this (would have been) difficult time that I have no reason to doubt any of their products, in fact I go as far as to say they are 10 years ahead of any other nootropic company out there. Everyone else is just struggling to catch up to them (as the Acetyl-Semax and Selanks show – again these are impressive compounds which have blown my mind more than any other nootropic I’ve tried).</p>
    <p>So to sum up the opioid culture of yesterday has hit a turning point. Opioids may now be used without the stigma of addiction when used in the right direction and, while the large Pharmaceutical Companies still dole out opioids like sweets, we are lucky enough to have other people around who care as much as to remove the addiction much simpler than ever before.</p>
    <p>We have hit our Golden Age.</p>
    </div>
    <span style="display:none"><a href="https://www.deepdotweb.com/tag/culture/" rel="tag">culture</a> <a href="https://www.deepdotweb.com/tag/opioid/" rel="tag">opioid</a> <a href="https://www.deepdotweb.com/tag/todays/" rel="tag">todays</a></span> <span style="display:none" class="updated">2015-07-30</span>
    <div style="display:none" class="vcard author" itemprop="author" itemscope itemtype="http://schema.org/Person"><strong class="fn" itemprop="name"><a href="https://www.deepdotweb.com/author/lines_of_thought/" title="Posts by Lines_of_Thought" rel="author">Lines_of_Thought</a></strong></div>
    </div>
</article>

